In this session you will learn about the following properties:

@keyframes
animation-name
animation-duration
animation-delay
animation-iteration-count
animation-direction
animation-timing-function
animation-fill-mode
animation


What are CSS Animations?

An animation lets an element gradually change from one style to another.

You can change as many CSS properties you want, as many times as you want.

To use CSS animation, you must first specify some keyframes for the animation.

Keyframes hold what styles the element will have at certain times.


                           The @keyframes Rule

When you specify CSS styles inside the @keyframes rule, the animation will gradually change from the current style to the new style at certain times.

To get an animation to work, you must bind the animation to an element.

The following example binds the "Animation.html" animation to the <div> element. The animation will last for 4 seconds, and it will gradually change the background-color of the "box" element from "red" to "yellow":

The animation-duration property defines how long an animation should take to complete. If the animation-duration property is not specified, no animation will occur, because the default value is 0s (0 seconds). 


In the "animation.html" we have specified when the style will change by using the keywords "from" and "to" (which represents 0% (start) and 100% (complete)).

It is also possible to use percent. By using percent, you can add as many style changes as you like.

The next code will change the background-color of the "box" element when the animation is 25% complete, 50% complete, and again when the animation is 100% complete:

The now this will change both the background-color and the position of the "box" element when the animation is 25% complete, 50% complete, and again when the animation is 100% complete.


                         Delay an Animation

The animation-delay property specifies a delay for the start of an animation.

Negative values are also allowed. If using negative values, the animation will start as if it had already been playing for N seconds.

On the next code the animation will start as if it had already been playing for 2 seconds:


                 Set How Many Times an Animation Should Run
The animation-iteration-count property specifies the number of times an animation should run.

The following animation will run 5 time before the animation  will stop.

The following uses the value "infinite" to make the animation continue for ever.

               Run Animation in Reverse Direction or Alternate Cycles

The animation-direction property specifies whether an animation should be played forwards, backwards or in alternate cycles.

The 'animation-direction' property can have the following values:

normal - The animation is played as normal (forwards). This is default
reverse - The animation is played in reverse direction (backwards)
alternate - The animation is played forwards first, then backwards
alternate-reverse - The animation is played backwards first, then forwards


                  Specify the Speed Curve of the Animation
The 'animation-timing-function' property specifies the speed curve of the animation.

The animation-timing-function property can have the following values:

ease - Specifies an animation with a slow start, then fast, then end slowly (this is default)
linear - Specifies an animation with the same speed from start to end
ease-in - Specifies an animation with a slow start
ease-out - Specifies an animation with a slow end
ease-in-out - Specifies an animation with a slow start and end
cubic-bezier(n,n,n,n) - Lets you define your own values in a cubic-bezier function


                Specify the fill-mode For an Animation
CSS animations do not affect an element before the first keyframe is played or after the last keyframe is played. The animation-fill-mode property can override this behavior.

The animation-fill-mode property specifies a style for the target element when the animation is not playing (before it starts, after it ends, or both).

The animation-fill-mode property can have the following values:

none - Default value. Animation will not apply any styles to the element before or after it is executing
forwards - The element will retain the style values that is set by the last keyframe (depends on animation-direction and animation-iteration-count)
backwards - The element will get the style values that is set by the first keyframe (depends on animation-direction), and retain this during the animation-delay period
both - The animation will follow the rules for both forwards and backwards, extending the animation properties in both directions


                      Animation Shorthand Property
